This is Darren Lyle and welcome to creating a game environment in Blendr and unity in this course.
What I'd like to do is work on creating a project an interior apartment scene that uses blender and
unity in kind of an integrated way from the very beginning.
I've seen a lot of course that go over creating game objects in Blender modeling U.V. mapping maybe
even texturing.
And then at the end they say and then you take it into unity or I've seen a lot of courses where it's
about unity and all the assets have already been made and you're bringing them in it into unity at the
beginning and then going from there.
What I'd like to do is show you how I kind of use Blender in unity from the very beginning of the project.
I think it's important to be able to go back and forth easily and quickly between the two programs as
you create your environment.
It's the way I do it and hopefully what you can get out of it is maybe some ideas that you can apply
to your process.
So having said that here we are in Blender.
I think the first thing we should do is take a look at our scale and what unit of measure we're going
to be using throughout the project.
So Blendr by default when you first open it up has these Blendr units that come over here to the scene
button and you can see here under units we've got none which is the default Blendr unit.
And then you've got metric and the imperial system of inches and feet.
I'm here in America and so I am surrounded by the imperial system of inches and feet.
If you're anywhere else in the world then you're probably using the metric system.
Now Unity's basic unit of measure is the metric system is one meter.
So if I switch here in Blendr from none to metric you can see that not much happens.
You go back from none metric.
There really isn't any difference.
However if you switch over to the imperial system you can see that the grid switches two feet and the
grid shrinks a bit.
But ultimately it's still the same size.
This cube is still the same size.
So let's take a look at it.
I'm going to press the End key to bring up the properties panel here and if I go up scroll up a bit
you can see I've got location rotation and scale and then I've got dimensions here and Jered dimensions
you can see that this cube is two meters by two meters.
Now if I switch it if I switch from metric to Imperial you can see that it switches to 6.5 six two feet
which is two meters.
So the size of your objects don't change when you switch your units of measure.
You're just measuring the size in a different way.
But to make things easier we should probably use the metric system.
Now if we open up unity I'm going to go ahead and open up unity here.
And I'm going to go ahead and create a new project and I will call this I'll just call it unity.
So I know it's a unity project folder and then I'll just call this apartment because I'm going to be
creating an interior apartment scene here and I'll just make sure that using 3-D instead of 2D.
Just click on 3D there and create project.
So here we are in unity.
Now if I come over here and right click in the hierarchy I can create a 3D object and I'll just create
a cube and make sure that this is in the center of the grid.
It is the position is 0 0 0 over here in the inspector to move around in Unity is a little bit different
than Blendr you mainly use the alt key and then click and drag it to tumble Allt middle mouse button
to Pan and Allt right mouse button to zoom and you can also scroll the mouse wheel to zoom as well so
it's a little bit different navigation.
But you kind of get used to it after a while.
If you've ever used Autodesk Maya it's the exact same way of navigating within the 3D view.
In addition if you want to move or rotate or scale it's a little different than Blendr you can always
come up here and choose the move rotate and scale tools right up here or you can press w for move E-4
rotate and are for scale.
So that allows you to switch quickly with the W E and Archy's.
All right so this cube is actually one meter by one meter.
So let's do a little test here.
Let's test taking a cube from Blender into unity and make sure our pipeline is working the way we want
it to.
All right.
So we have one by one cube here.
That's good.
I'm going to switch back to Blender here and let's change the dimensions of this cube.
I'm just going to come into the dimensions field here and type in one tab one tab one and enter.
And so now we have a cube that is one meter by one meter.
All right.
I'm going to call this.
I'm going to name this cube.
I'm going to call this blender cube for the name of it.
And in addition what I'm going to do is add a material to it I'm going to come over here to the materials
panel and it already has a default material.
Now I'm using the cycle's render engine.
I just have that on by default whenever I create a new blender scene.
But if you're using the blender render engine here that's fine too it doesn't really matter because
our final materials and our final rendering are going to take place in unity in game.
So I'm going to name this material.
The same thing I've named my cube I'll copy this and I'll just come over and paste this right into here.
All right.
So now I have an object with a name and a material ready to go over to unity.
There are a couple of different ways to do this but the way I like to transfer projects into unity is
by using the FBI X file format and you can drag a blend file directly into unity.
But all it does is open up Blendr in the background.
Use Blender's FDX converter to convert the file to SBX and then enclose Blendr in the background.
So if it's going to use Blender's FDX converter anyway why not go ahead and do it here.
So I'm going to come up here to file and I'm going to go to export and I'm going to choose SBX.
Now this particular scene has a few elements in it.
It's got a camera it's got a point light it has my cube but I only want to export that cube so I'm going
to choose select objects or selected objects right down here I have that cube selected.
I'm going to browse to the folder that I want to export to.
I think I'm to create a whole new folder here called exports and that will be kind of the transitionary
place while going to put my FP x files before I take them into unity.
So I'm going to go and create a new folder here.
Call it exports and open that up.
Now I'm going to give this a name what docs call this I called it Blendr cube denie So we've got Blendr
cube SBX.
I've chosen the selected objects.
I'm using this FDX 7.4 binary version.
And now I'll just click export FDX.
All right so there it goes.
Now here in unity we need to bring that object into the assets folder.
When there's a couple of things I want to point out as we do now if you want to just bring one item
into the assets folder here you can right click in the assets folder and go to import new asset and
that will bring up a browser window that will allow you to go to your folder and find your file.
Now if you look up here it says you can also import files by dragging them.
So if you have multiple files multiple FBI exes or textures or whatever you should just open up your
windows explorer or your Finder window whatever.
Select the multiple files and drag them directly into the assets folder here.
But since I only have one to bring in I'm going to just use this process select the blender cube and
click Import.
Now the reason why I gave that cube a material is because I wanted to show you this when ever you bring
in a new object.
It's going to bring in its materials and it's going to look for a folder called materials and if it
can't find on it will create one and put that material in it.
So what I always do is when I bring a model in when I bring in FBI X and I always bring it into the
root assets folder and let it drop the material into the materials folder is just easier that way.
But what I can do is make sure I keep everything neat and tidy.
So I'm going to go ahead and right click choose create choose folder and I'm going to call this models
and this is where I will put all the models I bring in.
So once again I'm going to bring any new models into the assets folder here.
It will automatically drop the material into the materials folder and then I'll just drag that object
into the models folder.
All right.
Let's take a look at this and see how we did.
I'm going to click this blender cube and drag it up here into the hierarchy and drop it.
And here it is.
But I don't see it because it's right inside that cube.
And this is a good thing.
Notice that hour one by one cube in unity is matching exactly are one by one cube and blender.
That's exactly what we want.
So the take away from this is to be sure and set up your unit of measure ahead of time.
So you know exactly how big things should be.
Now I know that one meter in Blender is going to equal one meter in unity and I'll have a good sense
of how big things should be as I begin creating the objects.
Now there's another thing I want to mention here in unity and that's the camera.
Now what we're going to be doing is we're going to bring in our environment models here from Blender
and then we're going to want to be able to run the game and move through the scene to check out how
everything is looking.
So what we need to do is have a camera that we can move around.
Once we turn on the game if I run the game now and I click the play button right up here you can see
here's our game but I can't move around.
I can't look around.
I can't move around with the WASC keys.
I can't do anything.
So let me hit the play button again to turn unity off turn the game off there.
So what I want to do is create a ground plane here in unity that we can run around on as we bring in
our objects so I'm going to go ahead and delete this cube and I'm going to go ahead and delete this
cube as well just right click and choose delete.
And I'm going to go to Blendr and use Blender to create a ground plane just for the floor.
This may not be our final floor but I think it's a good thing to do once again to test our pipeline
to test our process and to get used to going between these two programs so I'm going to select everything
here with the key and just press X and delete.
So now we just have a clean scene here.
I'm going to go to the Create tab and create a polygon plane and I'm going to scale it up.
So it's about as big as the grid here.
And if I press the end key and go up to the top you can see that I've created a polygon plane that's
about 16 meters by 16 meters.
Now let's go ahead and say 20 by 20.
Why not let's do that.
I'm going to give this a name and come over here to the out liner and call it just call it floor.
Once again this may not be the final floor but it's going to serve its purpose here here in the materials
panel saw continue and with this new material I'll call this floor.
I'd just like to try and keep the materials and the object names if not the same have some sort of a
relationship.
Also I think I'll press the tab key to go into that mode and I think I want to add some polygons to
this floor.
Currently it's just one big polygon so I'm going to press the W key and choose subdivide.
And you can see that it's subdivided this into four polygons.
I'll come over here and increase the number of cuts from one oh maybe.
Let's go up to five here and with five cuts it looks like I've got 36 faces on this.
That looks fine to me.
Here it is.
If I hit the A key.
All right.
So let's go ahead and take this into unity as well.
So I'm going to go to a file export FBA X. I'll call this floor and notice here I've still got my selected
object checked.
I'm still in the exports folder here so I'll just click export SBX.
All right.
Let's go over to unity now here in Unity.
I'll go ahead and open up a Finder window here.
And in here I'll go into my exports and grabbed that floor and drag it in.
Now I'm going to drag it over here into the assets folder so that when it comes in and wants to drop
its material into a materials folder it'll see that materials folder there it is.
And now I'll just take that model and drag it into the models folder.
All right.
So now I'm going to grab that floor drag it into the hierarchy it'll drop him to the scene it's at 0
0 0 in the position fields here.
That's good.
So there is our first object now.
It is currently selected to de-select it.
You can click anywhere or you can just drag click and drag with the mouse as well.
All right so what I want to be able to do is I want to be able to run around on this plane currently
If I hit the play key you can see we can't move at all.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to import one of the pre-made packages that comes with unity that
has a first person controller in it that I can use to run around and test my scene.
So I come over here to the assets folder right click and go to import package and under here I'm going
to bring in the characters package that comes with unity.
Here it is the whole thing.
I'm going to click Import
and what it will do.
It will create a standard assets folder and it will have the character package in that standard assets
folder.
All right.
So here's that standard assets.
Here's my characters and right in here in first person control or we've got a folder called prefabs.
If I open that up you can see we've got two first person controllers.
One is an FP controller and that has quite a bit of stuff on it.
Components on it including an audio source here.
So if we take a look at this one the rigid body.
Yes this one doesn't have any audio on it and this is the one I usually use so I'm going to take this
and drag it up into the hierarchy and there it is.
So it's been dropped in here at 0 0 0 but it needs to be pulled up just a bit so it's just above the
ground plane.
Now if I hit play I can now move around but the problem is is I'm just falling now I've fallen down
through the polygon planes so what I need to do is create a collider that will keep me from falling
down through it.
So what I can do is choose this floor object here and add a collider to it.
So if I come over here to add component with the floor selected and go to physics and Bach's Collider
that will add a box Collider to that object so that now when I hit play I don't fall through.
So now I can move the mouse around and WASC D and move and run around this polygon plane.
All right.
So this is going to be our kind of our test area and hit escape.
And then I can push the play button here.
So that's just going to be our our test area that we can run around and take a look at our scene as
we build it.
Now I noticed down here it says there are two audio listeners in the scene.
You.
Exactly one.
One thing we can do is delete this main camera because it has an audio listener on it and so does this
camera as well so that's the problem.
Let's go and take this main camera that came in the scene when we first opened it and delete that right
click and delete.
So now we only have one camera in the scene and that's that's good.
And they change the name of this.
I think I'll just call it player and we go.
And now if we run the game again you can see that error goes away and we can run around
on the floor.
All right good.
So now we've set up our scene in unity we can begin working in blender and bring in our assets piece
by piece.